# NeuroTech @ UIUC

## What are we about?
NeuroTech is an RSO at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign dedicated to exploring the interdisciplinary study of neurotechnology. This combines the field of neuroscience & technology, fusing the capabilities of the body with the advanced, powerful technology that we have to come to develop and appreciate. We also do outreach to encourage people to learn more about neurotechnology with various programs and medias.

## What are the different teams?

- Brainwaves: Brainwaves is a project focused on increasing awareness of the field of neuroscience and its interdisciplinary nature. Our goal is to spark public interest in neuroscience and show its relevance to everyday life. By making scientific research more accessible and relatable, Brainwaves aims to connect with students from diverse backgrounds and foster a community of curious and informed individuals.
- Universum: At Universum, we have established a few core values for our project and how we run our team. First and foremost, we at Universum look to integrate technology and neuroscience to seek new ways for our brains to interact with the world and its inner workings. Currently, we have two divisions. The model development team is developing a way to predict physiological movements off proprioception and EEG signals. The prosthetic design team is the team that is working to create a pipeline between our minds and an external device so that they can work together to help manifest your decisions seamlessly and efficiently. Learning, cultivating, and sharing are the core values that motivate our mission as we move forward as a team.
- Cortex Codex: Various EEG modalities for BCI applications can pose challenges that hinder the process of gathering and preprocessing EEG data. Issues like long calibration periods between users in Motor Imagery BCI’s and certain individuals providing weak responses for SSVEP or P300 BCI’s not only affect the reliability of the data gathered, but can also delay a group from continuing further experimentation and data analysis. To address this problem, we want our group to experiment with and develop efficient preprocessing pipelines for EEG data - applying approaches to EEG signal denoising to real world datasets. In doing this, we are creating readymade tools for EEG signal denoising for other Neurotech divisions to use at their disposal, solving a universal problem amongst Neurotech groups and making project cycles more efficient. We also stand to make valuable contributions in a field that is rapidly evolving and seeking new ways to revolutionize BCI research and assistive technologies.
- Research & Apply: This project focuses on using EEG signals and machine learning to provide real-time feedback on motor cortex engagement during rehabilitation exercises. By developing a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model, we aim to create a Motor Engagement Score that quantifies motor activity, helping patients and therapists optimize motor rehabilitation. The long-term goal is to collaborate with hospitals to refine the tool for clinical and personal use. Our efforts aim to present a functional prototype at the UIUC Undergraduate Symposium.
- VR-Neurofeedback: The goal of this research project is to establish a foundation for conducting neurofeedback therapy within a VR environment. Neurofeedback therapy, a form of biofeedback, holds great potential in enhancing cognitive functions and addressing various neurological ailments like stress, ADHD, and Alzheimer's/Dementia.
- Magazine: From AI to Neuroinformatics, Neurotech Magazine aims to diversify exposure to topics within the field of Neurotechnology. Through four distinct branches—design, independent articles, collaborative articles, and interviews—we are able to create a cohesive narrative of a certain portion of neurotechnology in the modern day. By compiling various perspectives into multiple media outlets, Neurotech Magazine endeavors to simultaneously unite curious students and foster an interest in the emerging aspects of the relatively new field of Neurotechnology.
- NeuroBytes: The field of neurotechnology is a fast-growing frontier. It is steadily gaining traction in both the professional and public sphere, especially as companies begin to adopt AI platforms into their businesses. The goal of the NeuroBytes project is to invite leaders in the field of neurotechnology to speak about their passions and their visions for this field. We hope to instill an interest and spark creativity and innovation in those who listen to them. With a team of 2-3 members, we will host monthly speaker events, both online and in-person. These events will be marketed not only to our members, but also to the greater campus community. We will also extend these events to high school and middle school students as well. It is important to educate younger generations about the field so that they can pursue an educational path that can support their interests.
- The NeuroTech Educational Outreach Program is designed to introduce individuals outside of neuroscience and related fields to the fundamental concepts of neurotechnology. By providing a streamlined and accessible understanding of these concepts, participants will be better equipped to engage in future NeuroTech projects. The program includes a comprehensive series of lessons, gradually progressing from basic neuroscience foundations to neurotechnology topics, applications, and ethical considerations.

## Links
Website: https://uiucneurotech.web.illinois.edu
